 MODERN STEEL CONSTRUCTION  DECEmbEr 2007
London’s new O2 Arena uses a steel roof, erected with an  
innovative lifting operation, to top what was designed to be  
Europe’s most acoustically advanced concert venue.Essential Elements
by KEn JonEsinternational projects
TThERE’S bEaUTIfUL MUSIC COM-
INg fROM gREENwICh, LONDON. 
More specifically, it’s coming from the new 
O2 Arena. Built within London’s existing 
Millennium Dome structure, the recently opened arena provides London with a 
22,000-seat state-of-the-art entertainment 
venue. Designed to be the most technically and acoustically advanced concert arena in Europe, it also plays host to multiple sport-
ing events.
geometry and Design
The spherical surface of O
2 Arena’s 
roof has a radius of 1,145 ft and is exactly 
parallel to the surface of the dome canopy 
above. (The project’s structural engineer, 
Buro Happold, also designed the original award-winning cable-net structure of the Millennium Dome itself, now called The 
O
2.) The structure comprises intersecting planar trusses of depths varying between 
13 ft and 36 ft. The radial trusses cantile-
ver by up to 72 ft beyond perimeter trusses 
that form a ring inside the roof support bearings and cores. The slender roof edge is dressed with a smooth “bullnose” clad-
ding detail that undulates and seemingly 
floats in space over the upper concourse.
Buro Happold created a three-dimen-
sional structural model of the project using Microstation, and Structural design analy-
sis was carried out using STAAD.Pro. The 
ductwork and catwalk systems were fully integrated and coordinated into the design from the outset. The fabricator, Watsons 
Steel, then progressed with the steelwork 
production drawings using the 3D model as a starting point. During the initial stages of connection design, Watsons seconded an engineer to work in the Buro Happold 
offices, which aided the full understanding of the critical joint issues from the project’s 
early stages.
The Roof
Constructing a building within a build-
ing created many challenges. For start-
ers, the seating bowl design limited the 
space available for the new roof construc-tion beneath the existing dome canopy; a minimum 16.5 ft of clearance between the new arena roof and the existing structure 
was required for building environment 
and smoke management considerations. The use of standard cranes was clearly not an option because of the proximity of the 
existing dome structure.
The whole roof was built at ground level, 
including all catwalks, services contain-
ment, ductwork, gondola winch platform, perimeter bullnose, gutters, fall-arrest sys-
tems, and acoustic cladding. It was built on 

  DECEmbEr 2007  MODERN STEEL CONSTRUCTION 
a series of temporary trestles and then lifted 
by the strand-jacking method in a virtually completed condition. Working at this low 
vertical level maximized access and speed 
of construction and also improved safety. 
Roof support was accomplished using 
only eight bearing points; the roof “floats” 
above the upper seating bowl and upper 
circulation concourse. It was lifted by strand jacks acting on the eight permanent support bearing points. The contractor chose to lift the roof in one piece, although 
the original concept allowed for raising it 
in several discrete, independently stable pieces, thereby enabling the progressive construction of the building frame below.
Each of the concrete cores at the eight 
points was designed so that the roof “slot-ted” into a gap in the core, allowing the roof to be lifted from directly above the bearing point. In two of the cores, several sections of floor slab were eliminated so that the roof steel could move vertically up past the floor edges. These were added at a 
later date. At four of the cores, quadruped 
support frames fitted into a free gap. They were hung from the end of the primary truss nodes as a means of lifting them to the 
top of the cores. Once the roof was posi-
tioned at the correct level, the quadrupeds were rotated and dropped onto the top of the core to support the roof.
The Lift Operation
T emporary steel lifting frames, with 
strand-climbing jacks, were positioned at 
the head of each core and used to lift the 
roof. All the jacks were controlled from 
a central computer, enabling them to be operated individually or simultaneously. Due to a lack of space above the temporary lifting frames, climbing jacks, rather than 
top-mounted jacks, were used.
Buro Happold worked closely with Wat-
sons Steel and specialist lifter PSC Fagioli 
on the design of the lifting frames, the lift 
sequences, monitoring, and method state-
ments. Some of the concrete cores were slender, with tall temporary steel frames mounted on them. Detailed non-linear buckling analysis of the combined roof, lift-
ing frame, and core assemblies was carried 
out, together with independent checks on the design of the frames themselves, using the analysis results. Developments to the 
design of the lifting frames were made to 
ensure a rigorously checked and safe over -
all build sequence.
Lifting the roof safely required tight 
dimensional control and monitoring dur -
ing the operation. The strands needed to remain within only 1 in. of vertical in order to avoid excessive lateral loads to the lift-ing frames, especially as the strands short-
ened at the top of the lift. In addition, the 
roof needed to remain almost perfectly horizontal, within a band of 1.2 in., so that the trusses and connections were not over -
stressed by a temporary condition in the 
process.
The lift operation was split into two 
stages—an 36-ft lift and a 52-ft lift—giving 
a total roof elevation of 88 ft. Each stage 
took three night shifts to complete, allow-
ing other construction work to continue throughout the day. Particular care was taken on “lift-off” when the temporary 
frames rapidly picked up their full load 
and the roof swung free. During this step, a swing of only 0.40 in. to the north was experienced, which was testament to the accuracy of the construction, positioning, by the Numbers
arena roof steel: 2,800 tons
Main span: 421 ftapprox. roof area: 186,000 sq. ftSeating capacity: 22,000Primary truss depth: 36 ft (max.)
Primary truss chord: 30-in.-
diameter by 2.2-in.-thick tubes
building height: 154 ft
Roof lift weight: 4,400 tonsand robustness of the temporary lifting 
frames. In the three weeks between the 
two lift operations, the strand jacks were locked off and packs inserted as a precau-tion to control any tendency toward lateral 
movement. The roof hung on its strands 
while work continued to complete the final cladding envelope work, such as movement joint in-fill sections.
The lift progress was hampered by the 
need to constantly correct for level after every few jack strokes, in order to remain within the required tolerances. Problems with survey monitoring points and survey 
equipment were encountered periodi-
cally, but were overcome. Maintaining a balanced force within a pair of jacks at a single suspension point caused consterna-tion at times. T o combat this, movements 
were surveyed, plotted, and monitored for 
all core lift points (using survey targets mounted near the top and bottom posi-tion of the strands), as well as for some of 
the slender concrete cores. An automated 
surveying system was used so that measure-
ments could be taken regularly, allowing 
the lift to proceed as quickly as possible.
Building the temporary lifting frames 
was a feat in and of itself, involving smaller 
jacking processes to push the 12-ton lift 
beams to within 5 ft of the underside of the existing cable net.
Design features
As predicted and expected, large vertical 
structural deflections occurred at the time 
of lift-off from the ground level trestles. This formed an important and unique 
challenge for the structural design, one 
that is not often encountered in this way. T o accommodate this movement, an exten-sive network of joints in the steelwork and 
cladding was incorporated. Steelwork joint 
movements were monitored before, dur -
buro Happold

 MODERN STEEL CONSTRUCTION  DECEmbEr 2007ing, and after the initial lift, and this work 
showed the structure to have behaved as planned, with joints opening or closing by 
the predicted amount.
The catwalks and network of rigging 
beams at the level of the truss bottom 
chords are configured to support the com-
plex sports lighting requirements and con-
cert rigging demands. A maximum rigging load of 110 tons plus 22 tons of center-hung scoreboard can be suspended in the roof. In addition, the roof is “future-proofed” for 
possible external conditions, such as wind 
and snow, in the event that the dome can-opy is removed.
The scoreboard can be fully retracted 
into the roof volume using the winch plat-form at the center of the roof to make way for in-the-round event configurations. Buro Happold continues to work with and advise the client on specific concert rigging 
requirements.
Roof Cladding
The cladding is tuned for optimum acous-
tic performance for break-out, break-in, and 
reverberation time. It is designed to be the most acoustically advanced venue in Europe. The cladding is also used as a “stressed skin” structure, in order to economize on the steel weight in the purlin members.
Cladding build-up options were tested 
against prescribed acoustic performance requirements, and the resulting deck weighs a hefty 14 psf, including an 8-in.-deep steel profile decking with acoustic absorption 
panels fixed to the soffit of each trough.
A large (approximately 52 ft by 46 ft) 
cladding and purlin trial panel was built, 
which proved to be extremely useful for many reasons:
T o check buildability of warped clad-✓✓
ding fixed to spherical-faceted purlinsAs a physical fit-up test for complex ✓✓
purlin-to-truss steelwork bracket con-
nections (also a function of spherical 
geometry)As an aid to test options for the cladding ✓✓
movement joints and edge support trimT o develop and hone a safe method of ✓✓
cladding installationT o force coordination and collabora-✓✓
tion between all parties in advance of the main fast-track build (cladding 
contractor, steelwork contractor, main 
contractor, cladding designer, acoustics engineer, structural engineer, and pro-curement parties)T o “de-risk” the construction process ✓✓
(faster, safer, etc.)The panel, although large, is certain 
to have paid for itself many times over in terms of improved overall project perfor -
mance and product quality.
Tight Space, Tight Schedule
All told, the O
2 Arena is a stunning 
venue with a special and unique design. 
The construction and lifting of the roof 
by controlled strand jacking of the whole 
4,400-ton assembly was skillfully and safely achieved to a tight schedule, despite the challenges of construction within an exist-
ing building.  
Ken Jones is Structures Group Director with 
Buro Happold’s Bath, UK, office.
Owner
Anschutz Entertainment Group, London
architect
HoK sport, London
Structural Engineer
buro Happold, bath, UK
Contractor
sir robert mcAlpine, London
above: The roof structure was built at ground level on a series of 
temporary trestles.
below: The roof structure in its final postion.buro Happold/Adam Wilson buro Happold/Adam Wilson
buro Happold/Adam WilsonEach of the concrete 
cores at the eight points was designed so that the roof “slotted” into a gap in the core, allowing the roof to be lifted from directly above the bear -
ing point. 
The end result is the o
2 Arena, Europe’s 
most  acoustically advanced concert venue.
buro Happold

