Sydney Opera House 
Technical and Production Information 
— Concert Hall 
Issue date: 25 January 2024 
Issued by: Event Operations and Planning 

Page 1     Technical and Production Information for the Concert HallTechnical and Production Information 
Enquiries 
Venue & Event Sales 
T: +61 2 9250 7393 
E: venuehire@sydneyoperahouse.com 
Revisions 
Version Date of Issue Issued by Issued for 
2022.08 26/08/2022 Event Operations and 
Planning Public 
2024.01 25/01/2024 Event Operations and 
Planning Public 
Image by Chris Bennett Concert Hall –Venue Standard Configuration

Page 2     Technical and Production Information for the Concert HallContents 
1 Introduction 3
1.1 List of Acronyms 3
2 Risk Management 4
3 Venue Access 5
3.1 Getting to Stage Level 5
3.2 Anteroom to Stage 6
4 Venue Dimensions 7
4.1 Plan Dimensions 7
4.2 Section Dimensions 8
4.3 Stage Surface 9
4.4 Stage Plans 9
4.5 Auditorium Seating 9
5 Staging 11
5.1 Stage Machinery 11
5.2 Acoustic Systems 13
5.3 Standard Venue Configuration 15
5.4 Standard Staging Equipment 16
5.5 Additional Staging Equipment 16
6 Lighting 18
6.1 Base Lighting Equipment 18
6.2 Additional Lighting Equipment 20
7 Sound & Audio Visual 21
7.1 Base Sound Equipment 21
7.2 Additional A/V Equipment 22
8 Pianos 25
8.1 Grand Organ 25
9 Communications 26
9.1 Stage Management Desk 26
9.2 Show Relay 26
9.3 Headset Communications 26
10 Back-stage Facilities 27
10.1 Dressing Rooms 27
10.2 Rehearsal Rooms 27
10.3 Laundry Facilities 27
11 Protection of Building Surfaces 28

Page 3     Technical and Production Information for the Concert Hall1 Introduction 
The Concert Hall, with an audience capacity of up to 2654 in the round, is the largest 
interior venue at SOH (Sydney Opera House). Home of the Sydney Symphony 
Orchestra, the venue is regularly used by chamber and symphony orchestras, solo 
classical performers, and choral groups, for which it’s acoustics are particularly well 
suited. The Concert Hall (CH) is also used for contemporary music, jazz, variety shows, 
dance, films and conferences. 
The walls, stage and auditorium floor are finished in Australian brushbox timber with the 
seats made from Australian white birch timber veneer, upholstered in magenta wool. 
Overlooking the stage is believed to be the world’s largest mechanical action grand 
organ, itself a distinctive architectural feature of the venue. 
The foyers of the Concert Hall encircle the venue, offering unsurpassed views across 
Sydney Harbour and the Harbour Bridge to the north and west, and the city to the south.  
In 2022 the Concert Hall reopened after being closed for two and half years for extensive 
renovations. A multi-million-dollar upgrade was undertaken to improve safety, acoustics, 
and accessibility.  
It is intended that this document is read in conjunction with the SOH Event Guide. 
1.1 List of Acronyms 
BOH Back of House 
CP Central Passage 
CH Concert Hall 
CHNF Concert Hall Northern Foyer 
CHSF Concert Hall Southern Foyer 
EWP Elevated Work Platform 
DS Down-stage 
FOH Front of House 
GR Green Room 
LD Loading Dock 
OP Opposite Prompt (Stage Right) 
PS Prompt Side (Stage Left) 
SM Stage Manager 
SMD Stage Manager’s Desk 
SOH Sydney Opera House 
US Up-stage 

Page 4     Technical and Production Information for the Concert Hall2 Risk Management 
In NSW, if you conduct a business or undertaking, you are legally obliged to manage 
certain risks. In particular, you must: 
 Identify and eliminate risks to health and safety, or, if that is not practicable, then 
minimise those risks as far as is reasonably practicable; and 
 Ensure the health and safety of your own workers, AS WELL AS ensure that 
other workers’ or persons’ safety is not put at risk by work carried out as part of 
your business or undertaking. 
Work health and safety obligations in NSW are non-transferable and concurrent. This 
means that: 
 Each business or person with safety obligations must comply with their WHS 
requirements; and 
 If more than one business or person has a duty under the law, then they must 
comply to the extent that they can influence or control the safety matter. 
Detailed information around risk management and production risk assessments is 
available in the SOH Event Guide. 

Page 5     Technical and Production Information for the Concert Hall3 Venue Access 
3.1 Getting to Stage Level 
Two goods lifts (12 and 22) are available to carry equipment from the main SOH Loading 
Dock or Central Passage (CP) to the venue. These lifts are shared with The Studio and 
stop at the following locations: 
 B4 (Loading Dock) 
 CP (Ground Level) 
 GM (Studio Gallery Mezzanine Level) 
 L1 (Orchestra Assembly Room) 
 L2 (CH Anteroom) 
 Size and weight limits apply: 
Goods Lift Dimensions Lift 12 Lift 22 
Internal Car 
Dimensions Height 2.40m 2.39m 
Width 1.65m 1.95m 
Depth 3.36m 3.36m 
Clear Door 
Opening Height 2.20m 2.20m 
Width 1.60m 1.80m 
Load Capacity Max Capacity 1,800kg 1,800kg 
Point Load 1,080kg 1,080kg 
Other Speed 1.0m/s 1.0m/s 
Doors 3 Panel side 
opening 3 Panel side 
opening 
Larger items which exceed lift sizes are required to be carried into the building up 72 
stairs, either from the Forecourt and the Monumental Steps, or from under the 
Monumental Steps via the Box Office Foyer and the CH South Foyer (CHSF). 
Access to the CHSF and into the CH is via standard double doors, either into the 
Anteroom or through the CH auditorium via Door 11. 

Page 6     Technical and Production Information for the Concert Hall3.2 Anteroom to Stage 
Access from the anteroom towards stage is via four double doors (two in each wing). 
Typically, OP side is used as a primary means of access to stage given its proximity to 
the lifts, larger door and lack of permanent infrastructure within the wing area. PS access 
is slightly more restrictive with reduced clearance between anteroom and wing.  
Key Stage Access Dimensions Height Width 
A Doors from wings to stage (all 4) 2.20m 2.00m 
B Minimum clearance from anteroom to OP wing 2.20m 2.80m 
C Minimum clearance from anteroom to PS wing 2.20m 1.70m 
D Anteroom ceiling height 2.25m - 
E Height clearance to down stage doors 2.08m - 

Page 7     Technical and Production Information for the Concert Hall4 Venue Dimensions 
4.1 Plan Dimensions 
Dimension Details Distance 
A Depth of stage at centre line 12.30m 
B Depth of stage at centre line with stage extension 14.30m 
C Width of stage front 14.50m 
D Width between down-stage doors* 19.20m 
E Width between up-stage doors* 16.00m 
F Width at up-stage edge* (stairs not in use) 13.80m 
G Width at up-stage edge (stairs in use) 11.70m 
Dimensions are approximate and critical measurements should be confirmed on site. 
*Stage walls overhang approx. 100mm at top 


Page 8     Technical and Production Information for the Concert Hall4.2 Section Dimensions 
Dimension Details Distance 
A Auditorium floor to stage level 0.90m 
B Height of ceiling at centre line (to ‘out dead’ of acoustic overlay) 15.0m 
C Rear stage wall height 2.40m 
D Follow-spot booth to stage front 37.0m 
E Rear of upper circle to stage front 44.0m 
F Rear of stalls to stage front  20.5m 
Dimensions are approximate and critical measurements should be confirmed on site. 


Page 9     Technical and Production Information for the Concert Hall4.3 Stage Surface 
Surface* Satin matte clear polyurethane on brushbox over 21mm ply 
substrate 
Rake Flat – No rake 
Max Point Load 500kg (over a 200 x 200mm area) 
Total Live Load US - 700kg/m2
DS - 500kg/m2  (Stage extension / Stage lifts 1A, 2A, 3A, 4A, 1B, 
C, 1D, 1E, 2E, 3E, 4E / Fixed stage areas) 
*Anchoring of any equipment or spiking of any instruments into the stage surface is not 
permitted 
4.4 Stage Plans 
Stage plans are available at sydneyoperahouse.com  
Scaled plans can be requested through SOH Event Operations as PDFs or as 
Vectorworks files.  
Email techspec@sydneyoperahouse.com or through your SOH Production Manager.  
4.5 Auditorium Seating 
The standard total physical seating in the CH is 2557 arena style in-the-round, with 
continental seating in the stalls and dress circle. This total includes the stage extension in 
the ‘deployed’ position (stage level) and does not include accessible seating or standing 
positions. 
An additional 52 seats can be added (bringing total venue seating to 2609) by lowering 
the stage extension and semi-automatically deploying rows A and B. Altering the 
standard seating layout to include these seats incurs additional labour fees to set and 
strike. 
Total capacity needs to account for potential production holds and sightline requirements 
for specific events, to be discussed with Event Operations prior to on-sale. 

Page 10     Technical and Production Information for the Concert Hall


Page 11     Technical and Production Information for the Concert Hall5 Staging 
5.1 Stage Machinery 
The Concert Hall is equipped with a sophisticated theatre machinery system with over 
350 axes of control. The control of all machinery is achieved via a number of touch 
screen desks and handheld devices with multiple connections points (including wireless) 
available throughout the venue. 
The control system may only be operated by SOH staff. 
Machinery Type Quantity Details 
Stage Lift 25 Arranged in a semi-circular formation 
Up-stage Stairs 2 Provide access to choir stalls from up-stage lift 
Mid-stage Stairs 2 Deploy automatically when required 
Stage Extension 3 Can be lowered to reveal stalls rows A & B 
5.1.1 Stage Lifts 
The primary function of the stage lifts are to provide a stepped semi-circular arrangement 
for the setting of an orchestra. 
A majority of the lifts can travel to 0.8m above the fixed stage level (in 0.2m increments) 
except for a number of up-stage lifts that travel to 1.0m.  
The furthest up-stage two lifts have a travel of 1.7m above stage level with the most up-
stage lift providing storage for up to two grand pianos.  
5.1.2 Stage Lift Accessories 
Depending upon final configuration required of the stage lifts, additional accessories must 
be manually deployed: 
 Handrails 
 Kick Rails 
 Removable Fascia 
 Temporary Step Units 
5.1.3 Stage Stairs 
Two up-stage automated stairs form part of the up-stage lift and provide access to the 
choir stalls. If access to the choir stalls is not required, then these stairs store flat within 
the up-stage lift providing additional stage area.  
The two mid-stage stairs are passive and deployed automatically when their adjoining lift 
travels above stage level.  
All automated Stage Stairs are only deployed in 0.2m increments.  
For direct access from stage to auditorium, two step-units are installed and can be 
removed manually, at additional cost. 

Page 12     Technical and Production Information for the Concert Hall5.1.4 Stage Extension 
The stage extension is made up of three independently controlled lifts that travel from 
stage to auditorium level. 
The two normal configurations are with all three lifts level with one another, either at 
stage level (venue standard layout) or at auditorium level (-0.90m). 
Other configurations are available upon consultation, at additional costs. 
5.1.5 Over-Head Machinery 
The over-head machinery system is comprised of several different elements that provide 
a potential lifting capacity of over 30 tonnes, with multi-line winches capable of working in 
groups (see venue fly plot). 
Machinery Type Quantity Location 
2.5t Multi-line Winch (5 lines) 11 Over-stage 
4.0t Multi-line Chain Motor (5 lines) 4 Over-stage (up-stage area) 
1.5t Multi-line Winch (4 lines) 4 (2 per side 
of stage) Over-stage (running up / down on 
side of stage 
1.0t Fixed Position Chain Motor 22 Over stalls and circle  
Due to the unique nature of the CH structure, there are a variety of different restrictions in 
place on the over-head machinery system. These restrictions include, but are not limited 
to:  
 Limiting the overall capacity of fly system in different zones of the roof 
 Limits on moving multiple elements at once 
 Reductions in movement speed 
5.1.6 Specialist Rigging 
The CH has a number of specific rigging locations throughout the venue for the 
attachment of event specific equipment. 
There are five rigging points located above the cannon ports on each side of the stage 
and five points in the stage walls on each side. Additionally, there are three tie-off points 
at the back row of each box. 

Page 13     Technical and Production Information for the Concert Hall5.2 Acoustic Systems 
The CH has various sound reflecting / absorbing systems that optimise the venues 
acoustics. 
5.2.1 Over-Stage Reflectors 
There are eighteen curved reflectors over-stage that trim between 8.5-12.0m from stage 
level depending on the event requirements. For non-acoustic performances, the 
reflectors are flown out and tilted to provide clearance for the deployment of the acoustic 
banners and over-head machinery. 


Page 14     Technical and Production Information for the Concert Hall5.2.2 Wall Reflectors 
There are twenty-two wall reflectors (eleven on each side of the venue) that are deployed 
from the vertical walls near the ceiling. These reflectors extend from the wall 
approximately 1.4m and provide additional reflection of sound down to the audience.  
5.2.3 Acoustic Banners 
When the CH is in ‘amplified performance’ mode there are five different types of banners 
that are deployed throughout the venue.  
Banner Type Quantity Details 
Crown 
Banners 15 1.2m - 3.0m in width, deployed from the ceiling above 
stage, when fully deployed their bottom trim is 
approximately 10m from stage 
Drawer 
Banners 8 Four each side, deployed from the vertical walls near the 
ceiling above stage when fully deployed their bottom trim is 
approximately 10m from stage 
Wall Banners - Banners deploy to cover the walls behind the last row of 
seats in organ gallery, upper circle and boxes D/E/F/X/Y/Z 
Box-front 
Banners 6 Banners extend downwards from a roller blind style 
mechanism in front of boxes A/B/C/U/V/W 
Manual 
Drapes - A series of manually deployed drapes cover the surfaces of 
the walls surrounding the stage and areas at the rear of the 
venue 
Concert Hall – Typical Contemporary Music 
setup (Amplified Mode) 

Page 15     Technical and Production Information for the Concert Hall5.3 Standard Venue Configuration 
The CH has many different possible configurations of its installed machinery and 
systems.  
Time should be allocated in the schedule to adapt the venue to suit event requirements 
and then return the venue to its standard configuration at the end of the hire period.  
The standard configuration of the venue is as follows: 
 Stage lifts stowed (flat stage) 
 All acoustic banners stowed 
 Wall reflectors stowed 
 FOH control position in stalls retracted and seats in place 
 Flown audio subs removed 


Page 16     Technical and Production Information for the Concert Hall Stage extension deployed (at stage level) with rows A / B retracted 
 Acoustic reflectors and lighting pods flown to standard trim height (8.5-12.0m) 
 Auditorium access stair units installed  
5.4 Standard Staging Equipment 
The following equipment is included within the venue hire costs: 
Element Equipment Allocation Details 
General 
Furniture Card Table 3 830 x 830mm Square Top 
Trestle Table 2 1800 x 750 Top 
Vinyl Chair 10 
Black Screen 4 
Wardrobe Wardrobe Rack (large) 7 
Wardrobe Rack (small) 7 
Desk Unit 2 Portable with mirror/screen 
5.5 Additional Staging Equipment 
The following sections of equipment can be utilised by your production at an additional 
cost, subject to the requirements of the other venues. 
5.5.1 Masking 
Typical theatrical masking such as legs and borders are only appropriate in the Concert 
Hall for specific situations. Please consult with your SOH Production Manager for the list 
of masking that may be available at additional cost. 
5.5.2 Additional Equipment 
The following equipment can be utilised by your production at an additional cost: 
Element Equipment Details 
Rostrum Megadeck 1.2 x 2.4m Carpeted 
Megadeck 0.4 x 2.4m Carpeted 
Megadeck 0.8 x 2.4m Carpeted 
Megadeck 1.0 x 2.0m 
Megadeck 1.0 x 1.0m 
Megadeck ‘Wedges’ Brushbox finish, used in conjunction with 
Stage Risers 
Megadeck Legs 200 / 350 (rolling) / 400 / 600 / 800mm 

Page 17     Technical and Production Information for the Concert HallElement Equipment Details 
Floor 
Covering Black Carpet Full covering of flat stage or tiered risers – 
installed as acoustic treatment as a part of 
amplified performances 
Vinyl Black or White 
General 
Furniture Card Table 830 x 830mm Square Top 
Trestle Table 1800 x 750 Top, Various Colours 
Cabaret Table 600mm or 900mm Round Top 
Vinyl Interlocking Chair Black, Padded 
Orchestral 
Furniture Padded Orchestral 
Chair Height Adjustable 
Music Stand 
Conductors Stand 
Bass Spike Board 
Cello Spike Board 
Cloths Sharkstooth Gauze Various 
Filled Cloth Various 
Push-up Drapes on 
Poles Black, Various sizes 
2m Book Flat Masking Black or Grey, Padded 
1.3m Book Flat Masking Black, Padded 
Rigging 1T Chain Block 7m chain 
1/2T Chain Block 
Tail Pipe 20-25mm, various lengths 
Mini Quad Truss 100mm, various lengths 
Tri Truss 300mm, 1m, 2m, &3m lengths 
Box Truss Limited quantity - various lengths 

Page 18     Technical and Production Information for the Concert Hall6 Lighting 
6.1 Base Lighting Equipment 
In addition to venue hire charges, the Base Lighting Equipment package fee includes the 
following: 
6.1.1 Control 
Stage lighting is controlled by an ETC Gio console (located in the control room) with an 
ETC Gio@5 running as a tracking back-up.  
Both consoles have 24K channels and use an ETC DMX over Ethernet system for DMX 
distribution. 
An ETC Nomad Puck is available for use with Designer’s monitors at the production desk 
in the auditorium. An ETC Pad (remote control unit) is available for rigging and focussing 
sessions on-stage.  
If lighting console operation is required from the stalls, additional seats (minimum of 
eight) will need to be removed and must be considered prior to tickets going on sale so 
seats can be reserved. 
External network devices including tour lighting desks or control surfaces must be pre-
approved prior to installation onto the local network. 
6.1.2 Data 
The CH has an ETC DMX over Ethernet system. It utilises sACN to distribute an almost 
infinite number of DMX universes.  
Alternate protocols such as ArtNet are not permitted to run on the House network. If 
protocols other than sACN are required, please discuss with SOH.  
Data appears in the control room, the dimmer rooms, on the stage platform, in stage 
wings and in the stalls at the FOH stalls operating position. Some points have 
permanently installed Ethernet to DMX nodes. Extra nodes can be installed on request.  
6.1.3 Power  
All general and dimmed electrical power supplies are 240V AC @ 50Hz.  
Two 400A 3-phase power-lock connections are available (one in each stage wing).  
These two connections share a 600A breaker. Additional 50A 3-phase Clipsal 
connections are available throughout the stage, wings, and other strategic locations. 
SOH can install additional dimmer racks if required, by prior arrangement. Electrical 
installations may only be performed by SOH staff and all requirements must be 
discussed in advance.  
6.1.4 Dimmers  
The CH has over 618 channels of 3kw dimming / switched dimming and 52 5kw dimming/ 
switched dimming.  
While a number of these dimming channels are dedicated to the fixed lighting positions, 
there are over 350 channels available for temporary event overlay including 146 
channels on-stage level and 216 channels located within the lighting cable reelers. 

Page 19     Technical and Production Information for the Concert Hall6.1.5 Lighting Pods 
There are sixteen, height variable lighting pods over-stage providing top and front light for 
orchestral arrangements. 
The pods contain ETC Pro Eight-Cell lights that are non-zoomable and fixed colour 
temperature which emulates tungsten and also provide work light for stage. These lights 
are fixed focus and cannot be adjusted for other events.  
Additionally, each lighting pod also contains one SolaFrame Studio moving head fixture 
which can provide a colour or gobo stage wash. Each light also contains shutters that 
can be used for specials as required. Due to the nature of the lighting pods, position 
changes can only be achieved at very low speed.
6.1.6 Cannon Ports 
Above each side of the stage, within the bulkhead above the boxes, are eight MAC 
encore performance WRMs (four on each side). When not required, the fixtures are 
retracted into the vertical walls.  
6.1.7 Fixed Lighting Positions 
There are several fixed lighting positions throughout the venue that can be used for 
performances as required. Some of these positions have a fixed focus (typically for 
orchestral lighting) while other positions can be adjusted to suit the needs of a particular 
event. The table below provides a detailed overview of the lighting positions, the 
equipment, and any other notes.  
Position Equipment Details 
FOH Bridge 2 Robert Juliat ZEP2 661SX profile spots Orchestra front lighting 
FOH Bridge 3 Robert Juliat ZEP2 661SX profile spots Orchestra front lighting  
FOH Bridge 4 Robert Juliat ZEP2 661SX profile spots Orchestra front lighting  
Back Spots ETC Source4 LED Series 3 10 variable focus per side 
Cannon Ports MAC Encore Performance WRM  4 per side  
Lighting Pods ETC Pro Eight-Cell Fixed focus 
Lighting Pods SolaFrame Studio 1 per pod 
Crown Lighting LDOH005 INCAND AIR RGBAW 
Followspot Booth Robert Juliat Arthur LT LED Followspot 2 per side 
Organ Lighting LED strip Fixed focus 
6.1.8 House Lights 
The house lights are RGBAW LED fixtures which can emulate tungsten, but if required 
also provide the ability to change colour and isolate specific areas.  
6.1.9 Crown Lights 
The crown lights are RGBAW LED fixtures which can emulate tungsten but also provide 
the ability to change colour. Due to the reflectors and lighting pods permanently hung in 
the venue these lights do not provide lighting for the stage platform and serve as 
architectural lighting elements that match the existing house lights.  

Page 20     Technical and Production Information for the Concert Hall6.2 Additional Lighting Equipment 
The following equipment is dedicated to the venue and can be utilised by your production 
at an additional cost: 
Lamp Type Allocation 
 Martin Mac Viper Performance 8 
 Martin Mac Viper Profile 10 
 Martin Quantum Profile 18 
 Martin Quantum Wash 18 
 Martin Mac 101 CW 8 
Additional lamp and effects stock are available upon request 
6.2.1 Followspots 
Four Robert Juliat Arthur LT  800W LED followspots with manual colour changers are 
permanently located above the dress circle in a dedicated followspot room.  
The angle to the down-stage edge of the stage is approximately 30º and the throw is 
36m.  
6.2.2 Music Stand Lights 
24V LED sconce lights are available to fit music stands at an additional cost. 
6.2.3 Smoke and fog machines 
Two Unique haze machines are permanently installed in the up-stage cannon port 
positions – one each side of stage.  
Smoke or haze cannot be used in the Concert Hall while the Grand Organ is in use, and 
special effects of any type are not permitted to be installed in or around the organ loft. 
Oil-based machines are not permitted at any time. 

Page 21     Technical and Production Information for the Concert Hall7 Sound & Audio Visual 
7.1 Base Sound Equipment 
In addition to venue hire charges, the Base Sound Equipment package fee includes the 
following: 
7.1.1 Loudspeaker System 
The venue has a D&B Audiotechnik loudspeaker system, with some elements requiring 
to be set-up production dependant: 
Component Equipment Allocation
Main Flown System Left: 6 x KSL8 over 4 x KSL12 10 
Centre: 6 x KSL8 over 4 x KSL12 10 
Right: 6 x KSL8 over 4 x KSL12 10 
Subs* Flown: SL Sub Flown behind 
centre array4 
Floor: SL Sub or V-sub 2 
Delay and Fill Image fill: V7p or 44s 2 
Circle Delay: V10p 3 
Side Box Fills: Y10p 6 
Side Box Fills: Y7p 2 
Side Box Fills: E8 6 
Side Box Fills*: E4 20 
Front Fill*: 44s or T10 8 
*Deployment of these elements incurs additional labour and time 
7.1.2 System Processing and Routing 
System processing is performed by the installed amplifiers and a D&B DS100 signal 
engine. Signal distribution to these devices is over a Dante Network. 
7.1.3 Technical Panels & Audio Routing 
The CH has an extensive installation of cabling infrastructure to send audio and video 
signals throughout the venue. 
The majority of the infrastructure home-runs are to the venue patch room. The patch 
room, located off the Assembly Room on Level 1, is also home for audio drive 
equipment, stage management system equipment and patching. 
Point to point patching of copper and fibre is also available from FOH mix position in the 
stalls to side of stage for touring applications:  
 8 Pairs of multi-mode fibre  

Page 22     Technical and Production Information for the Concert Hall 8 Cat6 
 8 75Ohm BNC 
 8 Individual XLR audio tie lines and 96 channels of audio tie lines (via 2x150 
pin LK connectors) 
 8 Pairs of multi-mode fibre connect OP to FOH 
7.2 Additional A/V Equipment 
The following equipment can be utilised by your production at an additional cost: 
7.2.1 Mixing Console - FOH Stalls 
Permanently installed SSL Live L650 system comprising of  
 144 microphone preamplifiers 
 32 Line in/out 
 32 AES in/out  
Outboard FX 
 2 x Bricasti M7 
 Waves Extreme Server running Waves Mercury V14 
To accommodate the stalls FOH mix position, 14 seats must be removed from the stalls 
in rows W and X. 
7.2.2 Mixing Console - Box A / U Position 
An operating position is available behind box A or U and does not require the removal of 
any seats. This position is only used for productions with minimal audio requirements and 
utilises a small mixing desk.  
The standard set-up for this position is a Yamaha QL1 desk behind Box U.  
7.2.3 Monitor Console 
An SSL Live L650 console is available in a rolling case to be setup side of stage. I/O is 
permanently installed, the monitor system is comprised of 
 144 microphone preamplifiers 
 32 Line in/out 
 32 AES in/out  

Page 23     Technical and Production Information for the Concert HallThe following equipment can be utilised by your production at an additional cost: 
Equipment Model 
Mixing Consoles/Remote 
Surfaces SSL L650 Console 
SSL L350+ Console 
SSL Remote Tile with a touchscreen running SOLSA 
software 
Yamaha QL1 Console 
Stage Monitors  D&B Audiotechnik M4 
D&B Audiotechnik Y-SUB 
D&B Audiotechnik V series line array 
D&B Audiotechnik V-Sub 
D&B Audiotechnik V10P 
D&B Audiotechnik Y10P 
D&B Audiotechnik Y7P 
D&B Audiotechnik E8 
Radio Microphones – 
Belt-packs 
(Shure Axient Wireless 
System) AXT 100 Belt Packs: 
DPA 4066 
DPA D:Fine 
DPA D:Fine 66 
DPA 4061 
DPA 4080 
DPA 6066 
Radio Microphones – 
Handhelds 
(Shure Axient Wireless 
System) AXT 200 Handhelds: 
Shure KSM9 
Shure Beta 58 
Shure SM58 
Shure In-Ear Monitors Stereo PT10T dual wireless transmitters 
P10R wireless body-pack receivers 
SE425 earpieces 
Wired Microphones SOH have a wide range of microphones from brands such 
as Sennheiser, Shure, AKG, DPA, Beyer and Neumann and 
offers a variety of packages to suit 
Additional Playback MacBook Pro running QLab 

Page 24     Technical and Production Information for the Concert Hall7.2.4 Video Replay 
The Sound & AV department has a range of playback options and switchers. SOH vision 
equipment is shared between all venues and its use in the CH is subject to availability 
and will incur additional charges. 
Equipment Model 
Switchers Barco Image Pro 
Blackmagic Design ATEM 2 M/E Production Studio 4K 
Vision Playback  MacBook Pro 
Sound Devices Pix 270i 
7.2.5 Projection and Video Monitors 
There are several options available for projector placement within the venue, including 
front and rear projection. Please note that in order to facilitate projection, truss and a 
screen must be rigged. 
Element Equipment 
Projectors Barco HDX 14k 
Screens Stumpfl 7.3m x 4.1m (24ft x 13.5ft) 16:9 ratio FastFold  
Stumpfl 6.1m x 3.4m (20ft x 11.3ft) 16:9 ratio FastFold 
Stumpfl 4.8m x 2.7m (16ft x 9ft) 16:9 ratio FastFold 
Stumpfl 3.6m x 2.1m (12ft x 7ft) 16:9 ratio FastFold 
Video Monitors LCD 75”  
LCD 55” 
Sony OLED 17” 
Photo: Prudence Upton
Credit Prudence Upton 

Page 25     Technical and Production Information for the Concert Hall8 Pianos 
The following pianos are included within venue hire costs, and are located in the 
following BOH spaces as standard: 
Dressing Room Piano 
DR58 Yamaha Model C5 
DR72 Steinway Model A 
DR73 Yamaha Upright (S1 Pro) 
DR74 Steinway Model B 
DR76 Steinway Model O 
DR61 Yamaha Upright 
DR62 Yamaha Upright 
Performance pianos for stage and associated tuning costs are additional to venue hire. 
8.1 Grand Organ 
The Grand Organ is an exceptionally significant instrument and must be treated with 
care.  
In order to protect the instrument from damage, only authorised performers are allowed 
access to the organ loft area. 
There are two colour CCTV monitors, a full stage-view and a conductor-view (which can 
be mirror-reversed if required). 
There is a fold-back speaker from the stage to the organ, and a microphone connection 
for the organist to communicate with the conductor or the audience. 
Communications with the SM is via cue lights and direct communication can be arranged 
upon request. 
SOH require that organists who are not acquainted with the organ attend a familiarisation 
session with the organ tuner. 
Smoke or haze effects cannot be used in the CH when the organ is in use.  
For safety reasons, venue technical set-ups cannot continue while the organ is being 
played, therefore organ pre-setting and rehearsal time needs to be scheduled 
independently of your technical time. 

Page 26     Technical and Production Information for the Concert Hall9 Communications 
9.1 Stage Management Desk 
A Stagetec Stage Management Desk (SMD) is located in Prompt Corner (stage left). The 
desk is fully programmable, includes four broadcast-quality show relay screens, a 
telephone, two integrated Riedel Artist communications panels and dynamically 
assignable tactile LED buttons.  
The SMD controls audio and video relay to both FOH and BOH spaces, and can be used 
to broadcast live or pre-recorded announcements to backstage or foyer spaces.  
There is an automatic message stacking facility to prevent conflict with other venues 
when announcements are simultaneously sent from other venues to common areas of 
the building, such as the Green Room (GR). Features include dynamic allocation of 
paging, program audio relay, cue lights, and foyer bells.  
FOH functions are generally managed by the Theatre Manager from a touch screen in 
the foyer, however these functions are also accessible at the SMD. 
9.2 Show Relay 
9.2.1 Longview 
A low latency, colour image of the venue stage is distributed to the SMD, stage wings, 
lighting control, sound control, GR, some dressing rooms, and venue foyers. The SM has 
pan, tilt, and zoom control of the long-view camera. A low-light camera is also 
permanently installed and sends vision to the SMD. 
9.2.2 Conductor View 
An image of the conductor from a low latency camera under the organ loft is distributed 
to the SMD, stage wings and to two 24” Sony monitors in the TV booths at the rear sides 
of the stalls.  
The SM has pan, tilt, and zoom control of the conductor view camera. 
9.2.3 Door Cameras 
When stage doors are closed, low latency screens and cameras mounted above each 
pair of doors provide an on-stage view in order to facilitate exits / entrances. 
9.2.4 Temporary Show Relay 
Temporary show relay screens can be deployed around the venue, foyers and 
throughout the wider precinct by prior arrangement and additional cost. 
9.3 Headset Communications  
A Riedel Artist wired intercom system operates across all venues. Permanent talkback 
stations are available in lighting and sound control locations, and wired headset tie lines 
are installed at all regular operating positions.  
A Riedel Bolero wireless beltpack system is fully integrated with the Riedel Artist wired 
intercom system, and is included within venue hire costs as per the below table: 
Equipment Allocation Details 
Wireless Beltpack Comms 19 Riedel Bolero BBP 
Additional units may be provided upon request at a per unit charge 

Page 27     Technical and Production Information for the Concert Hall10 Backstage Facilities 
10.1 Dressing Rooms  
The venue includes use of eleven associated dressing rooms. The dressing rooms are all 
located close to the Green Room, one level beneath stage. 
Dressing Room Details Allocation
Soloist’s Rooms Accommodate two to four artists each 
Rooms include an ensuite bathroom with shower, 
toilet, and locker facilities 7 
Conductor Suite 
(DR 72) Reserved for conductors, soloists, or company 
management 
This room has a lounge area with a baby-grand piano, 
a writing desk, and a television with relay view of the 
stage 
Dressing facilities include a dressing table, full-length 
mirror, wardrobe rack and an en-suite bathroom 1 
Other Dressing 
Rooms Event Operations to advise based on availability 
Lockers in the dressing rooms are fitted with a staple and hasp. In order to lock a locker, 
a performer or presenter should bring their own padlock/s. Lockers must be cleared at 
the conclusion of the hiring period, or at the end of each day where other hirers will be 
using the CH between your sessions.  
10.2 Rehearsal Rooms 
The CH has two rehearsal rooms (RR 78 / 79) for use by hirers during their booking 
period. The rooms are located beneath the Assembly Room and have the capacity of up 
to five people depending on musical equipment requirements. 
Due to the acoustic overlay within the rooms the use of the rehearsal rooms are only for 
singers and musicians and are not to be used as additional dressing or storage rooms. 
The rehearsal rooms are also shared by hirers from other SOH venues. Coordination and 
use of these rooms must be confirmed in advance.  
10.3 Laundry Facilities 
Venue laundry allocation: 
Equipment Allocation 
Electric clothes dryer 1 
Top loading clothes washing machine 1 

Page 28     Technical and Production Information for the Concert Hall11 Protection of Building Surfaces 
Appropriate measures must be taken to ensure the protection of all SOH building fabrics 
and surfaces, including wood, granite, glass, ceramics, concrete, and bronze.  
Prior consultation and approval is required for any plans to attach to or penetrate building 
surfaces.  
You must provide suitable rubber pads, plywood sheets, or plastic to protect all building 
surfaces including but not limited to floors, walls, chairs, and ceilings.  
The use of paints or chemicals on SOH building surfaces or fixtures is prohibited. 
Similarly, any use of water, soaps, or cleaning fluids of any kind must be pre-approved by 
Building Operations. 

